CHANGE(BMP238): new readme for github (#16)
mia-platform-marketplace/Node.js-Custom-Plugin-Template: README.md

# Node.js custom plugin template walkthrough
This walkthrough will help you to learn how to use a Node.js microservice from scratch. 

In order to do so, access to [Mia-Platform DevOps Console](https://console.cloud.mia-platform.eu/login), create a new project and go to the **Design** area. From the Design area of your project select "Microservices" on the menu on the left sidebar and then create a new microservice, you have now reached [Mia-Platform Marketplace](https://docs.mia-platform.eu/development_suite/api-console/api-design/marketplace/)! <br />
In the marketplace you will see a set of Examples and Templates that can be used to set-up microservices with a predefined and tested function. 

For this walkthrough select the following template: **Node.js template**. After clicking on this template you will be asked to give the following information:

- Name (Internal Hostname)
- GitLab Group Name
- GitLab Repository Name
- Docker Image Name
- Description (optional)

You can read more about this fields in [Manage your Microservices from the Dev Console](https://docs.mia-platform.eu/development_suite/api-console/api-design/services/) section of Mia-Platform documentation.

> Give to your microservice the following Name: **template-microservice**. Then, fill the other required fields and confirm that you want to create a microservice. Now we have generated a *template-microservice* repository that is already deployed on Mia-Platform [Nexus Repository Manager](https://nexus.mia-platform.eu/).

Author: I chose `template-microservice` because I wanted to remark the fact that it is a microservice generated from our template! Despite this, I think that `my-node-service-name` is a better name, I will change it!

> It is important to know that the microservice that we have just created is not saved yet on the DevOps Console. It is not essential to save the changes that we have made, since we will later make other modifications inside of our project in the DevOps Console.<br />

Author: With the exception of the name of the template/example, this section is identical for all services. I have written just some lines below this section a link to the docs (https://docs.mia-platform.eu/development_suite/api-console/api-design/custom_microservice_get_started/). Should I completerly remove this section and leave just this link?

In particular, in this walkthrough we will create an endpoint to our *template-microservice*. To do so, from the Design area of your project select "Endpoints" on the menu on the left sidebar and then create a new endpoint.<br />
Now we need to choose a path for our endpoint and to connect this endpoint to our microservice. Give to your endpoint the following path: **say-hello**. Then, specify that you want to connect your endpoint to a microservice and, finally, select *template-microservice*.

After having created an endpoint to your microservice you should save the changes that you have done to your project in the DevOps console, in a similar way to what we have previously done after the microservice creation.

Once all the changes that we have made are saved, we are now able to deploy our project through the API Console. Go to the **Deploy** area of the DevOps Console.<br />

> Once here select the environment and the branch you have worked on. When the deploy process is finished you will receveive a pop-up message that will inform you.<br />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once here select the environment and the branch you have worked on [...]. When the deploy process is finished you will receveive a pop-up message that will inform you.<br />
```
Where there are the three dots misses the click of the deploy button

Step 5 of [Microservice from template - Get started](https://docs.mia-platform.eu/development_suite/api-console/api-design/custom_microservice_get_started/) section of Mia-Platform documentation will explain in detail how to correctly deploy your project.

Now, if you launch the following command on your terminal:

`curl <YOUR_PROJECT_HOST>/say-hello/hello`

(remember to replace `<YOUR_PROJECT_HOST>` with the real host of your project)<br />
you should see the following message: 

> `{"status":200,"message":"Hello World"}`

Reviewer: {
    "status":200,
    "message":"Hello World"
}
with json formatting

If you decide to save your changes now remember to choose a meaningful title for your commit (e.g "created service my_node_service_name"). After some seconds you will be prompted with a popup message which confirms that you have successfully saved all your changes.  
A more detailed description on how to create and save a Microservice can be found in [Microservice from template - Get started](https://docs.mia-platform.eu/development_suite/api-console/api-design/custom_microservice_get_started/#2-service-creation) section of Mia-Platform documentation.

After having created your first microservice (based on this template) you will be able to access to its git repository from the DevOps Console. Inside this repository you will find an [index.js](https://github.com/mia-platform-marketplace/Node.js-Custom-Plugin-Template/blob/master/index.js) file with the following lines of code:

```js
/* eslint require-await: 0 */
'use strict'

const customService = require('@mia-platform/custom-plugin-lib')()
/* eslint-disable-next-line no-unused-vars */
module.exports = customService(async function index(service) {

  /*
   * Insert your code here.
   */

})
```

> In this file you will find the usage of `custom-plugin-lib` a [node.js](https://github.com/mia-platform/custom-plugin-lib) library developed by Mia-Platform, based on the [fastify](https://fastify.io) library. It contains configurations and functions useful for the service setup. We will now add a new route that, when visited, will print an hello message and return the HTTP response status. To do so, let's use the following function:

Reviewer 2: @FilippoRezzonico Filippo, mi sembra molto bene fino a qui, chiuderei il primo punto e direi tipo: fantastico ora sei pronto per cusotmizzare il tuo template, segui la guida. 

Poi farei uno stacco con un nuovo titolo e farei: Esempio di rotta Hello World. 
e sotto dici: vediamo come implenatare una rotta Hello World nel Cusotm plugin con semplicitià sfruttando la libreria di mia. e poi parti con la tua spiegazione

Author: @Francesca-Carta, ho applicato la modifica! Se ne dovessero servire altre, fammi sapere!

In order to do so, access to [Mia-Platform DevOps Console](https://console.cloud.mia-platform.eu/login), create a new project and go to the **Design** area. From the Design area of your project select "Microservices" on the menu on the left sidebar and then create a new microservice, you have now reached [Mia-Platform Marketplace](https://docs.mia-platform.eu/development_suite/api-console/api-design/marketplace/)!  
In the marketplace you will see a set of Examples and Templates that can be used to set-up microservices with a predefined and tested function.

For this walkthrough select the following template: **Node.js template**. After clicking on this template you will be asked to give the following information:

- Name (Internal Hostname)
- GitLab Group Name
- GitLab Repository Name
- Docker Image Name
- Description (optional)

You can read more about this fields in [Manage your Microservices from the Dev Console](https://docs.mia-platform.eu/development_suite/api-console/api-design/services/) section of Mia-Platform documentation.

Give to your microservice the following name: **my-node-service-name**.  

> Then, fill the other required fields and confirm that you want to create a microservice. Now we have generated a *my-node-service-name* repository that is already deployed on Mia-Platform [Nexus Repository Manager](https://nexus.mia-platform.eu/) once build script in CI is successfull.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Then, fill the other required fields and confirm that you want to create a microservice. We now have generated a *my-node-service-name* repository that is already deployed on Mia-Platform [Nexus Repository Manager](https://nexus.mia-platform.eu/) once build script in CI is successful.
```

It is important to know that the microservice that we have just created is not saved yet on the DevOps Console. It is not essential to save the changes that we have made, since we will later make other modifications inside of our project in the DevOps Console.  

> If you decide to save your changes now remember to choose a meaningful title for your commit (e.g "my_node_service_name_creation"). After some seconds you will be prompted with a popup message which confirms that you have successfully saved all your changes.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you decide to save your changes now remember to choose a meaningful title for your commit (e.g "created service my_node_service_name"). After some seconds you will be prompted with a popup message which confirms that you have successfully saved all your changes.  
```

A more detailed description on how to create and save a Microservice can be found in [Microservice from template - Get started](https://docs.mia-platform.eu/development_suite/api-console/api-design/custom_microservice_get_started/#2-service-creation) section of Mia-Platform documentation.

> After having created your first microservice (based on *Node.js template*) you will be able to access to its git repository ( this functionality is present only in microservices created from Examples and Templates). Inside this repository you will find an [index.js](https://github.com/mia-platform-marketplace/Node.js-Custom-Plugin-Template/blob/master/index.js) file with the following lines of code:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After having created your first microservice (based on this template) you will be able to access its git repository from the DevOps Console. Inside this repository you will find an [index.js](https://github.com/mia-platform-marketplace/Node.js-Custom-Plugin-Template/blob/master/index.js) file with the following lines of code:
```

```js
/* eslint require-await: 0 */
'use strict'

const customService = require('@mia-platform/custom-plugin-lib')()
/* eslint-disable-next-line no-unused-vars */
module.exports = customService(async function index(service) {

  /*
   * Insert your code here.
   */

})
```

> `custom-plugin-lib` is a library developed in [node.js](https://github.com/mia-platform/custom-plugin-lib), based on the [fastify](https://fastify.io) library. It contains configurations and functions useful for the project. We will now add a new route that, when visited, will print an hello message and return the http response status. To do so, let's use the following function:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this file you will find the usage of `custom-plugin-lib`, a [node.js](https://github.com/mia-platform/custom-plugin-lib) library developed by Mia-Platform, based on the [fastify](https://fastify.io) library. It contains configurations and functions useful for the service setup. We will now add a new route that, when visited, will print an hello message and return the HTTP response status. To do so, let's use the following function:
```

`service.addRawCustomPlugin(httpVerb, path, handler, schema)`  
to which we will pass the following parameters:

> - `httpVerb`: *GET*, the HTTP verb of the request.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `httpVerb`: `"GET"`, the HTTP verb of the request.
```

> - `path`: */hello*, the route that gives us access to the logics described in our new handler.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `path`: `/hello`, the route that gives us access to the logics described in our new handler.
```

> - `handler`: *helloHandler*, function that contains the actual behavior. It must respect the same interface defined in the documentation of the handlers of fastify.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `handler`: `helloHandler`, function that contains the actual behavior. It must respect the same interface defined in the documentation of the handlers of fastify.
```

> - `schema`: *helloSchema* , definition of the request and response data schema. The format is the one accepted by fastify.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `schema`: `helloSchema`, definition of the request and response data schema. The format is the one accepted by fastify.
```

In order to proceed, we need to define a handler, a schema and pass them as parameters to this function.  
Below, you can see how the *index.js* file will look like after having defined all the parameters required by `service.addRawCustomPlugin` function:

```js
/* eslint require-await: 0 */
'use strict'

// handler scheme
async function helloHandler() {
  const helloMessage = `Hello World`
  return {
    status: 200,
    message: helloMessage,
  }
}

// response scheme
const helloSchema = {
  response: {
    200: {
      type: 'object',
      properties: {
        status: { type: 'number' },
        message: { type: 'string' },
      },
    },
  },
}

// wiring e route declaration
const customService = require('@mia-platform/custom-plugin-lib')()
/* eslint-disable-next-line no-unused-vars */
module.exports = customService(async function index(service) {
  service.addRawCustomPlugin('GET', '/hello', helloHandler, helloSchema)
})
```

> Searching for the defined route: **/hello** through a **GET** request, we will execute the **helloHandler**. Thanks to its execution, we obtain a response structured as **helloSchema**:  

Reviewer 3: Searching?

```json
{"status":200,"message":"Hello World"}
```

> After commiting these changes to your repository, we can go back to Mia Platform DevOps Console.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After committing these changes to your repository, you can go back to Mia Platform DevOps Console.
```

> In order to access to our new microservice it is necessary to create an endpoint to it. Step 3 of [Microservice from template - Get started](https://docs.mia-platform.eu/development_suite/api-console/api-design/custom_microservice_get_started/#3-creating-the-endpoint) section of Mia-Platform documentation will explain in detail how to create an endpoint from the DevOps Console.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In order to access to our new microservice it is necessary to create an endpoint that targets it. Step 3 of [Microservice from template - Get started](https://docs.mia-platform.eu/development_suite/api-console/api-design/custom_microservice_get_started/#3-creating-the-endpoint) section of Mia-Platform documentation will explain in detail how to create an endpoint from the DevOps Console.
```

> In particular, in this walkthrough we will create an endpoint to our *my-node-service-name*. To do so, from the Design area of your project select "Endpoints" on the menu on the left sidebar and then create a new endpoint.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In particular, in this walkthrough we will create an endpoint to our *my-node-service-name*. To do so, from the Design area of your project select "Endpoints" and then create a new endpoint.
```

> Now we need to choose a path for our endpoint and to connect this endpoint to our microservice. Give to your endpoint the following path: **/say-hello**. Then, specify that you want to connect your endpoint to a microservice and, finally, select *my-node-service-name*.

Reviewer 3: Defining `/say-hello` will lead us to have `/say-hello/hello` if we define something like `/greetings` we will use `/greetings/hello` which feels less redundant

```suggestion
Now we need to choose a path for our endpoint and to connect this endpoint to our microservice. Give to your endpoint the following path: **/greetings**. Then, specify that you want to connect your endpoint to a microservice and, finally, select *my-node-service-name*.
```

After having created an endpoint to your microservice you should save the changes that you have done to your project in the DevOps console, in a similar way to what we have previously done after the microservice creation.

Once all the changes that we have made are saved, we are now able to deploy our project through the DevOps Console. Go to the **Deploy** area of the DevOps Console.  
Once here select the environment and the branch you have worked on and confirm your choices clicking on the *deploy* button. When the deploy process is finished you will receveive a pop-up message that will inform you.  
Step 5 of [Microservice from template - Get started](https://docs.mia-platform.eu/development_suite/api-console/api-design/custom_microservice_get_started/#5-deploy-the-project-through-the-api-console) section of Mia-Platform documentation will explain in detail how to correctly deploy your project.

> Now, if you launch the following command on your terminal:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now, if you launch the following command on your terminal (remember to replace `<YOUR_PROJECT_HOST>` with the real host of your project):
```

```shell

> curl <YOUR_PROJECT_HOST>/say-hello/hello

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
curl <YOUR_PROJECT_HOST>/greetings/hello
```

```

> (remember to replace `<YOUR_PROJECT_HOST>` with the real host of your project)  

Reviewer 3: I'd write this sentence above

you should see the following message:

```json
{"status":200,"message":"Hello World"}
```

> Congratulations! You have successfully learnt how to modify a blank template into an hello-world node.js microservice!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Congratulations! You have successfully learnt how to modify a blank template into an _Hello World_ Node.js microservice!
```
